Cybersecurity incidents and data breaches are now a part of our lives,
and security is integrated in what we do,
how we act, and even where we go,
both online and in real life.
In the first part of the lesson,
we'll identify current trends in malicious activity,
technologies, and protection techniques.
The exercises will have you review
current cybersecurity events and ways organizations are responding to data breaches.
In May of 2020,
the FBI's Internet Crime Complaint Center celebrated its 20th year.
This graphic demonstrates how cybercrime continues to build,
plaguing consumers and businesses alike,
with the number of complaints growing to over five million as of March 2020.
In 2019, victims reported more than $3.5 billion in losses,
an average of $7,500 for each of the 467,361 complaints recorded that year.
The continually growing number of cybercrime complaints is one trend.
Others include how cybercrime is done using phishing,
ransomware, and business e-mail compromise.
Social engineering is still the number one way
people and businesses are scammed out of their money.
Smart devices, the Internet of Things,
and Cloud services all make our lives easier,
they also are new ways for malicious hackers to attack.
This all means more opportunities for cybersecurity professionals.
Phishing has been plaguing everyone online for many years.
Today, there are many variations such as spear phishing,
which is an attack against a specific individual.
Whaling is phishing, but going after executives in a company.
Smshing is using text messages.
So you get a text with a weird link in it,
which is a type of spam and phishing.
We're even seeing it with voicemail or vishing,
where you get a voicemail saying,
please contact us at a specific number,
often trying to get a user ID and password,
or your money like a credit card.
Last, we're seeing phishing through instant messages,
like in a chat where they're using Google Meet or Zoom or any of the others.
Be aware of what people are sending you,
and report anything that appears weird.
All of these are ways to use ransomware.
Ransomware is a type of malicious software designed to
block access to a computer system until a sum of money is paid.
Often, the perpetrator wants bitcoin
in exchange for cryptographic keys to unlock your files.
Basically, your computer is locked with bad guys
holding the key until you pay that ransom.
This has caused multiple millions of dollars in damages.
Business E-mail Compromise, or BEC,
is an exploit in which an attacker obtains access to a businesses e-mail account,
and imitates the owners identity in order to defraud
the company and its employees, customers, or partners.
The FBI has a comprehensive explanation of BEC on their website,
and the link is available in the notes.
Social engineering is another trend,
generally involves hacking humans and is an attempt to trick someone
into revealing information like their user ID and password or credit card.
It can be used to attack systems or networks as well.
It's the old con job where someone tries to pretend to be someone they're not,
whether it's online or in real life.
A cybersecurity trend that is beneficial is the use of smart devices such as phones,
watches, thermostats, lightings, cameras,
and even our cars.
These send and receive data via the Internet
and is known as the Internet of Things or IoT.
Tied to much of this is the use of Cloud services that allow access
to applications and data from a variety of devices and from almost anywhere.
With the benefit of these devices, come a downside,
making sure they are secure,
and that only authorized people and systems can access them.
Also, they need to be hardened to
ensure they cannot be used in ways they're not intended.
The last item on our list of security trends is that all of
this means more opportunities for cybersecurity professionals.
Soon we'll talk about cybersecurity careers.